infra/website/docs/blog/feast-openlineage-integration.md, before:

---
title: Tracking Feature Lineage with OpenLineage
description: Feast now supports native OpenLineage integration for automatic data lineage tracking of your ML features - no code changes required.
date: 2026-01-26
authors: ["Nikhil Kathole", "Francisco Javier Arceo"]
---

<div class="hero-image">
  <img src="/images/blog/openlineage1.png" alt="Feast OpenLineage Integration - Marquez UI" loading="lazy">
</div>

# Tracking Feature Lineage with OpenLineage 🔗

# Feast and OpenLineage

Understanding where your ML features come from and how they flow through your system is critical for debugging, compliance, and governance. We are excited to announce that Feast now supports native integration with [OpenLineage](https://openlineage.io/), the open standard for data lineage collection and analysis.

With this integration, Feast automatically tracks and emits lineage events whenever you apply feature definitions or materialize features—**no code changes required**. Simply enable OpenLineage in your `feature_store.yaml`, and Feast handles the rest.

# Why Data Lineage Matters for Feature Stores

Feature stores manage the lifecycle of ML features, from raw data sources to model inference. As ML systems grow in complexity, teams often struggle to answer fundamental questions:

- *Where does this feature's data come from?*
- *Which models depend on this feature view?*
- *What downstream impact will changing this data source have?*
- *How do I audit the data flow for compliance?*

OpenLineage solves these challenges by providing a standardized way to capture and visualize data lineage. By integrating OpenLineage into Feast, ML teams gain automatic visibility into their feature engineering pipelines without manual instrumentation.

# How It Works

The integration automatically emits OpenLineage events for two key operations:

## Registry Changes (`feast apply`)

When you run `feast apply`, Feast creates a lineage graph that mirrors what you see in the Feast UI:

```
DataSources ──┐
              ├──→ feast_feature_views_{project} ──→ FeatureViews
Entities ─────┘                                          │
                                                         │
                                                         ▼
                                     feature_service_{name} ──→ FeatureService
```

This creates two types of jobs:
- **`feast_feature_views_{project}`**: Shows how DataSources and Entities flow into FeatureViews
- **`feature_service_{name}`**: Shows which FeatureViews compose each FeatureService

## Feature Materialization (`feast materialize`)

When materializing features, Feast emits START, COMPLETE, and FAIL events, allowing you to track:
- Which feature views were materialized
- The time window of materialization
- Success or failure status
- Duration and row counts

# Getting Started

## Step 1: Install OpenLineage

```bash
pip install feast[openlineage]
```

## Step 2: Configure Your Feature Store

Add the `openlineage` section to your `feature_store.yaml`:

```yaml
project: my_fraud_detection
registry: data/registry.db
provider: local
online_store:
  type: sqlite
  path: data/online_store.db

openlineage:
  enabled: true
  transport_type: http
  transport_url: http://localhost:5000
  namespace: feast
```

## Step 3: Start Marquez (Optional)

[Marquez](https://marquezproject.ai/) is the reference implementation for OpenLineage and provides a beautiful UI for exploring lineage:

```bash
docker run -p 5000:5000 -p 3000:3000 marquezproject/marquez
```

## Step 4: Apply Your Features

```python
from feast import FeatureStore

fs = FeatureStore(repo_path="feature_repo")

# This automatically emits lineage events!
fs.apply([
    driver_entity,
    driver_stats_source,
    driver_hourly_stats_view,
    driver_stats_service
])
```

Visit http://localhost:3000 to see your lineage graph in Marquez!

# Rich Metadata Tracking

The integration doesn't just track relationships—it captures comprehensive metadata about your Feast objects:

**Feature Views**
- Feature names, types, and descriptions
- TTL (time-to-live) configuration
- Associated entities
- Custom tags
- Online/offline store enablement

**Feature Services**
- Constituent feature views
- Total feature count
- Service-level descriptions and tags

**Data Sources**
- Source type (File, BigQuery, Snowflake, etc.)
- Connection URIs
- Timestamp fields
- Field mappings

All this metadata is attached as OpenLineage facets, making it queryable and explorable in any OpenLineage-compatible tool.

# Try It Out: Complete Working Example

We've included a complete working example in the Feast repository that demonstrates the OpenLineage integration end-to-end. The example creates a driver statistics feature store and shows how lineage events are automatically emitted.

**Run the example:**

```bash
# Start Marquez first
docker run -p 5000:5000 -p 3000:3000 marquezproject/marquez

# Clone and run the example
cd feast/examples/openlineage-integration
python openlineage_demo.py --url http://localhost:5000

# View lineage at http://localhost:3000
```

The example demonstrates:
- Creating entities, data sources, feature views, and feature services
- Automatic lineage emission on `feast apply`
- Materialization tracking with START/COMPLETE events
- Feature retrieval (no lineage events for retrieval operations)

In Marquez, you'll see the complete lineage graph:
- `driver_stats_source` (DataSource) → `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView)
- `driver_id` (Entity) → `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView)
- `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView) → `driver_stats_service` (FeatureService)

<div class="content-image">
  <img src="/images/blog/openlineage2.png" alt="Feast Lineage Graph in Marquez UI" loading="lazy">
</div>

Check out the [full example code](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/tree/master/examples/openlineage-integration) for complete details including feature definitions with descriptions and tags.

# Benefits for ML Teams

**Debugging Made Easy**  
When a model's predictions degrade, trace back through the lineage to identify which data source or feature transformation changed.

**Impact Analysis**  
Before modifying a data source, understand all downstream feature views and services that will be affected.

**Compliance & Audit**  
Maintain a complete audit trail of data flow for regulatory requirements like GDPR, CCPA, or SOC2.

**Documentation**  
Auto-generated lineage serves as living documentation that stays in sync with your actual feature store configuration.

**Cross-Team Collaboration**  
Data engineers, ML engineers, and data scientists can all view the same lineage graph to understand the feature store structure.

# How Can I Get Started?

This integration is available now in the latest version of Feast. To get started:

1. Check out the [OpenLineage Integration documentation](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/openlineage)
2. Try the [example in the Feast repository](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/tree/master/examples/openlineage-integration)
3. Join the [Feast Slack](https://slack.feast.dev) to share feedback and ask questions

We're excited to see how teams use OpenLineage integration to improve their ML operations and welcome feedback from the community!

Commit message:

docs: Add native lineage support description to blog
Signed-off-by: ntkathole <nikhilkathole2683@gmail.com>

infra/website/docs/blog/feast-openlineage-integration.md, after:

---
title: Tracking Feature Lineage with OpenLineage
description: Feast now supports native OpenLineage integration for automatic data lineage tracking of your ML features - no code changes required.
date: 2026-01-26
authors: ["Nikhil Kathole", "Francisco Javier Arceo"]
---

<div class="hero-image">
  <img src="/images/blog/openlineage1.png" alt="Feast OpenLineage Integration - Marquez UI" loading="lazy">
</div>

# Tracking Feature Lineage with OpenLineage 🔗

# Feast's Native Lineage Support

Feast already provides **built-in lineage tracking** through its native UI. When you explore your feature store in the Feast UI, you can visualize relationships between data sources, entities, feature views, and feature services—all without any additional configuration.

<div class="content-image">
  <img src="/images/blog/feast_native_lineage.png" alt="Feast Native Lineage UI" loading="lazy">
</div>

This native lineage view shows:
- How **Data Sources** feed into **Feature Views**
- Which **Entities** are associated with each **Feature View**
- How **Feature Views** compose **Feature Services**

# Why OpenLineage? Lineage Across Your ML Ecosystem

While Feast's native lineage is powerful for understanding your feature store, modern ML systems span many tools—data pipelines, training jobs, model registries, and serving infrastructure. **OpenLineage** is the open standard that connects lineage across all these systems.

We are excited to announce that Feast now supports native integration with [OpenLineage](https://openlineage.io/), enabling you to:

- **Track end-to-end ML lineage**: Connect Feast feature lineage with upstream data pipelines (Airflow, Spark, dbt) and downstream model training
- **Unified visibility**: See your entire ML data flow in a single lineage graph
- **Interoperability**: Use any OpenLineage-compatible tool

With this integration, Feast automatically tracks and emits lineage events whenever you apply feature definitions or materialize features—**no code changes required**. Simply enable OpenLineage in your `feature_store.yaml`, and Feast handles the rest.

# Why Data Lineage Matters for Feature Stores

Feature stores manage the lifecycle of ML features, from raw data sources to model inference. As ML systems grow in complexity, teams often struggle to answer fundamental questions:

- *Where does this feature's data come from?*
- *Which models depend on this feature view?*
- *What downstream impact will changing this data source have?*
- *How do I audit the data flow for compliance?*

OpenLineage solves these challenges by providing a standardized way to capture and visualize data lineage. By integrating OpenLineage into Feast, ML teams gain automatic visibility into their feature engineering pipelines without manual instrumentation.

# How It Works

The integration automatically emits OpenLineage events for two key operations:

## Registry Changes (`feast apply`)

When you run `feast apply`, Feast creates a lineage graph that mirrors what you see in the Feast UI:

```
DataSources ──┐
              ├──→ feast_feature_views_{project} ──→ FeatureViews
Entities ─────┘                                          │
                                                         │
                                                         ▼
                                     feature_service_{name} ──→ FeatureService
```

This creates two types of jobs:
- **`feast_feature_views_{project}`**: Shows how DataSources and Entities flow into FeatureViews
- **`feature_service_{name}`**: Shows which FeatureViews compose each FeatureService

## Feature Materialization (`feast materialize`)

When materializing features, Feast emits START, COMPLETE, and FAIL events, allowing you to track:
- Which feature views were materialized
- The time window of materialization
- Success or failure status
- Duration and row counts

# Getting Started

## Step 1: Install OpenLineage

```bash
pip install feast[openlineage]
```

## Step 2: Configure Your Feature Store

Add the `openlineage` section to your `feature_store.yaml`:

```yaml
project: my_fraud_detection
registry: data/registry.db
provider: local
online_store:
  type: sqlite
  path: data/online_store.db

openlineage:
  enabled: true
  transport_type: http
  transport_url: http://localhost:5000
  namespace: feast
```

## Step 3: Start Marquez (Optional)

[Marquez](https://marquezproject.ai/) is the reference implementation for OpenLineage and provides a beautiful UI for exploring lineage:

```bash
docker run -p 5000:5000 -p 3000:3000 marquezproject/marquez
```

## Step 4: Apply Your Features

```python
from feast import FeatureStore

fs = FeatureStore(repo_path="feature_repo")

# This automatically emits lineage events!
fs.apply([
    driver_entity,
    driver_stats_source,
    driver_hourly_stats_view,
    driver_stats_service
])
```

Visit http://localhost:3000 to see your lineage graph in Marquez!

# Rich Metadata Tracking

The integration doesn't just track relationships—it captures comprehensive metadata about your Feast objects:

**Feature Views**
- Feature names, types, and descriptions
- TTL (time-to-live) configuration
- Associated entities
- Custom tags
- Online/offline store enablement

**Feature Services**
- Constituent feature views
- Total feature count
- Service-level descriptions and tags

**Data Sources**
- Source type (File, BigQuery, Snowflake, etc.)
- Connection URIs
- Timestamp fields
- Field mappings

All this metadata is attached as OpenLineage facets, making it queryable and explorable in any OpenLineage-compatible tool.

# Try It Out: Complete Working Example

We've included a complete working example in the Feast repository that demonstrates the OpenLineage integration end-to-end. The example creates a driver statistics feature store and shows how lineage events are automatically emitted.

**Run the example:**

```bash
# Start Marquez first
docker run -p 5000:5000 -p 3000:3000 marquezproject/marquez

# Clone and run the example
cd feast/examples/openlineage-integration
python openlineage_demo.py --url http://localhost:5000

# View lineage at http://localhost:3000
```

The example demonstrates:
- Creating entities, data sources, feature views, and feature services
- Automatic lineage emission on `feast apply`
- Materialization tracking with START/COMPLETE events
- Feature retrieval (no lineage events for retrieval operations)

In Marquez, you'll see the complete lineage graph:
- `driver_stats_source` (DataSource) → `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView)
- `driver_id` (Entity) → `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView)
- `driver_hourly_stats` (FeatureView) → `driver_stats_service` (FeatureService)

<div class="content-image">
  <img src="/images/blog/openlineage2.png" alt="Feast Lineage Graph in Marquez UI" loading="lazy">
</div>

Check out the [full example code](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/tree/master/examples/openlineage-integration) for complete details including feature definitions with descriptions and tags.

# Benefits for ML Teams

**Debugging Made Easy**  
When a model's predictions degrade, trace back through the lineage to identify which data source or feature transformation changed.

**Impact Analysis**  
Before modifying a data source, understand all downstream feature views and services that will be affected.

**Compliance & Audit**  
Maintain a complete audit trail of data flow for regulatory requirements like GDPR, CCPA, or SOC2.

**Documentation**  
Auto-generated lineage serves as living documentation that stays in sync with your actual feature store configuration.

**Cross-Team Collaboration**  
Data engineers, ML engineers, and data scientists can all view the same lineage graph to understand the feature store structure.

# How Can I Get Started?

This integration is available now in the latest version of Feast. To get started:

1. Check out the [OpenLineage Integration documentation](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/openlineage)
2. Try the [example in the Feast repository](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/tree/master/examples/openlineage-integration)
3. Join the [Feast Slack](https://slack.feast.dev) to share feedback and ask questions

We're excited to see how teams use OpenLineage integration to improve their ML operations and welcome feedback from the community!
