examples/README.md, before:

# Feast Examples

1. **[Quickstart Example](quickstart)**: This is a step-by-step guide for getting started with Feast.

2. **[Java Demo](java-demo)**: Demonstrates how to use Feast with Java feature server and deployed with Kubernetes.

3. **[Kind Quickstart](kind-quickstart)**: Demonstrates how to install and use Feast on Kind with the Helm chart.

4. **[Operator Quickstart](operator-quickstart)**: Demonstrates how to install and use Feast on Kubernetes with the Feast Go Operator.

5. **[Credit Risk End-to-End](credit-risk-end-to-end)**: Demonstrates how to use Feast with Java feature server and deployed with Kubernetes.

6. **[Python Helm Demo](python-helm-demo)**: Demonstrates Feast with Kubernetes using Helm charts and Python feature server.

7. **[RBAC Local](rbac-local)**: Demonstrates using notebooks how configure and test Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for securing access in Feast using OIDC authorization type with in a local environment.

8. **[RBAC Remote](rbac-remote)**: Demonstrates how to configure and test Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for securing access in Feast using Kubernetes or OIDC Authentication type with in Kubernetes environment.

9. **[Remote Offline Store](remote-offline-store)**: Demonstrates how to set up and use remote offline server.

10. **[Podman/Podman Compose_local](podman_local)**: Demonstrates how to deploy Feast remote server components using Podman Compose locally.

11. **[RHOAI Feast Demo](rhoai-quickstart)**: Showcases Feast's core functionality using a Jupyter notebook, including fetching online feature data from a remote server and retrieving metadata from a remote registry.

Commit message:

Added the postgres example to the examples README.md index.
Signed-off-by: lrangine <19699092+lokeshrangineni@users.noreply.github.com>

examples/README.md, after:

# Feast Examples

1. **[Quickstart Example](quickstart)**: This is a step-by-step guide for getting started with Feast.

2. **[Java Demo](java-demo)**: Demonstrates how to use Feast with Java feature server and deployed with Kubernetes.

3. **[Kind Quickstart](kind-quickstart)**: Demonstrates how to install and use Feast on Kind with the Helm chart.

4. **[Operator Quickstart with Postgres in TLS](operator-quickstart)**: Demonstrates installing and configuring Feast with PostgreSQL in TLS mode on Kubernetes, using the Feast Go Operator.

5. **[Operator Quickstart](operator-quickstart)**: Demonstrates how to install and use Feast on Kubernetes with the Feast Go Operator.

5. **[Credit Risk End-to-End](credit-risk-end-to-end)**: Demonstrates how to use Feast with Java feature server and deployed with Kubernetes.

6. **[Python Helm Demo](python-helm-demo)**: Demonstrates Feast with Kubernetes using Helm charts and Python feature server.

7. **[RBAC Local](rbac-local)**: Demonstrates using notebooks how configure and test Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for securing access in Feast using OIDC authorization type with in a local environment.

8. **[RBAC Remote](rbac-remote)**: Demonstrates how to configure and test Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for securing access in Feast using Kubernetes or OIDC Authentication type with in Kubernetes environment.

9. **[Remote Offline Store](remote-offline-store)**: Demonstrates how to set up and use remote offline server.

10. **[Podman/Podman Compose_local](podman_local)**: Demonstrates how to deploy Feast remote server components using Podman Compose locally.

11. **[RHOAI Feast Demo](rhoai-quickstart)**: Showcases Feast's core functionality using a Jupyter notebook, including fetching online feature data from a remote server and retrieving metadata from a remote registry.
