docs/reference/feast-cli-commands.md, before:

# Feast CLI reference

## Overview

The Feast CLI comes bundled with the Feast Python package. It is immediately available after [installing Feast](../how-to-guides/feast-snowflake-gcp-aws/install-feast.md).

```text
Usage: feast [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Feast CLI

  For more information, see our public docs at https://docs.feast.dev/

Options:
  -c, --chdir TEXT  Switch to a different feature repository directory before
                    executing the given subcommand.

  --help            Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  apply                    Create or update a feature store deployment
  configuration            Display Feast configuration
  entities                 Access entities
  feature-views            Access feature views
  init                     Create a new Feast repository
  materialize              Run a (non-incremental) materialization job to...
  materialize-incremental  Run an incremental materialization job to ingest...
  permissions              Access permissions
  registry-dump            Print contents of the metadata registry
  teardown                 Tear down deployed feature store infrastructure
  version                  Display Feast SDK version
```

## Global Options

The Feast CLI provides one global top-level option that can be used with other commands

**chdir \(-c, --chdir\)**

This command allows users to run Feast CLI commands in a different folder from the current working directory.

```text
feast -c path/to/my/feature/repo apply
```

## Apply

Creates or updates a feature store deployment

```bash
feast apply
```

**What does Feast apply do?**

1. Feast will scan Python files in your feature repository and find all Feast object definitions, such as feature views, entities, and data sources.
2. Feast will validate your feature definitions (e.g. for uniqueness of features)
3. Feast will sync the metadata about Feast objects to the registry. If a registry does not exist, then it will be instantiated. The standard registry is a simple protobuf binary file that is stored on disk \(locally or in an object store\).
4. Feast CLI will create all necessary feature store infrastructure. The exact infrastructure that is deployed or configured depends on the `provider` configuration that you have set in `feature_store.yaml`. For example, setting `local` as your provider will result in a `sqlite` online store being created. 

{% hint style="warning" %}
`feast apply` \(when configured to use cloud provider like `gcp` or `aws`\) will create cloud infrastructure. This may incur costs.
{% endhint %}

## Configuration

Display the actual configuration being used by Feast, including both user-provided configurations and default configurations applied by Feast.

```bash
feast configuration
```

```yaml
project: foo
registry: data/registry.db
provider: local
online_store:
    type: sqlite
    path: data/online_store.db
offline_store: 
    type: dask 
entity_key_serialization_version: 3
auth:
    type: no_auth
```

## Entities

List all registered entities

```text
feast entities list

Options:
  --tags TEXT  Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
               key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
```

```text
NAME       DESCRIPTION    TYPE
driver_id  driver id      ValueType.INT64
```

## Feature views

List all registered feature views

```text
feast feature-views list

Options:
  --tags TEXT  Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
               key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
```

```text
NAME                 ENTITIES    TYPE
driver_hourly_stats  {'driver'}  FeatureView
```

## Init

Creates a new feature repository

```text
feast init my_repo_name
```

```text
Creating a new Feast repository in /projects/my_repo_name.
```

```text
.
├── data
│   └── driver_stats.parquet
├── example.py
└── feature_store.yaml
```

It's also possible to use other templates

```text
feast init -t gcp my_feature_repo
```

or to set the name of the new project

```text
feast init -t gcp my_feature_repo
```

## Materialize

Load data from feature views into the online store between two dates

```bash
feast materialize 2020-01-01T00:00:00 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

Load data for specific feature views into the online store between two dates

```text
feast materialize -v driver_hourly_stats 2020-01-01T00:00:00 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

```text
Materializing 1 feature views from 2020-01-01 to 2022-01-01

driver_hourly_stats:
100%|██████████████████████████| 5/5 [00:00<00:00, 5949.37it/s]
```

## Materialize incremental

Load data from feature views into the online store, beginning from either the previous `materialize` or `materialize-incremental` end date, or the beginning of time.

```text
feast materialize-incremental 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

## Permissions

### List permissions
List all registered permission

```text
feast permissions list

Options:
  --tags TEXT    Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
                 key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
  -v, --verbose  Print the resources matching each configured permission
```

```text
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| NAME                  | TYPES       | NAME_PATTERNS         | ACTIONS   | ROLES          | REQUIRED_TAGS           |
+=======================+=============+=======================+===========+================+================+========+
| reader_permission1234 | FeatureView | transformed_conv_rate | DESCRIBE  | reader         | -                       |
|                       |             | driver_hourly_stats   | DESCRIBE  | reader         | -                       |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| writer_permission1234 | FeatureView | transformed_conv_rate | CREATE    | writer         | -                       |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| special               | FeatureView | special.*             | DESCRIBE  | admin          | test-key2 : test-value2 |
|                       |             |                       | UPDATE    | special-reader | test-key : test-value   |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
```

`verbose` option describes the resources matching each configured permission: 

```text
feast permissions list -v
```

```text
Permissions:

permissions
├── reader_permission1234 ['reader']
│   └── FeatureView: none
└── writer_permission1234 ['writer']
    ├── FeatureView: none
    │── OnDemandFeatureView: ['transformed_conv_rate_fresh', 'transformed_conv_rate']
    └── BatchFeatureView: ['driver_hourly_stats', 'driver_hourly_stats_fresh']
```

### Describe a permission
Describes the provided permission

```text
feast permissions describe permission-name
name: permission-name
types:
- FEATURE_VIEW
namePattern: transformed_conv_rate
requiredTags:
  required1: required-value1
  required2: required-value2
actions:
- DESCRIBE
policy:
  roleBasedPolicy:
    roles:
    - reader
tags:
  key1: value1
  key2: value2

```
### Permission check
The `permissions check` command is used to identify resources that lack the appropriate permissions based on their type, name, or tags.

This command is particularly useful for administrators when roles, actions, or permissions have been modified or newly configured. By running this command, administrators can easily verify which resources and actions are not protected by any permission configuration, ensuring that proper security measures are in place.

```text
> feast permissions check


The following resources are not secured by any permission configuration:
NAME                         TYPE
driver                       Entity
driver_hourly_stats_fresh    FeatureView
The following actions are not secured by any permission configuration (Note: this might not be a security concern, depending on the used APIs):
NAME                         TYPE                 UNSECURED ACTIONS
driver                       Entity               CREATE
                                                  DESCRIBE
                                                  UPDATE
                                                  DELETE
                                                  READ_ONLINE
                                                  READ_OFFLINE
                                                  WRITE_ONLINE
                                                  WRITE_OFFLINE
driver_hourly_stats_fresh    FeatureView          CREATE
                                                  DESCRIBE
                                                  UPDATE
                                                  DELETE
                                                  READ_ONLINE
                                                  READ_OFFLINE
                                                  WRITE_ONLINE
                                                  WRITE_OFFLINE

Based on the above results, the administrator can reassess the permissions configuration and make any necessary adjustments to meet their security requirements.

If no resources are accessible publicly, the permissions check command will return the following response:
> feast permissions check
The following resources are not secured by any permission configuration:
NAME    TYPE
The following actions are not secured by any permission configuration (Note: this might not be a security concern, depending on the used APIs):
NAME    TYPE    UNSECURED ACTIONS
```


### List of the configured roles
List all the configured roles

```text
feast permissions list-roles

Options:
  --verbose Print the resources and actions permitted to each configured
            role
```

```text
ROLE NAME
admin
reader
writer
```

`verbose` option describes the resources and actions permitted to each managed role: 

```text
feast permissions list-roles -v
```

```text            
ROLE NAME          RESOURCE NAME               RESOURCE TYPE    PERMITTED ACTIONS
admin              driver_hourly_stats_source  FileSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              vals_to_add                 RequestSource    CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_stats_push_source    PushSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_hourly_stats_source  FileSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              vals_to_add                 RequestSource    CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_stats_push_source    PushSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
reader             driver_hourly_stats         FeatureView      DESCRIBE
reader             driver_hourly_stats_fresh   FeatureView      DESCRIBE
...
```


## Teardown

Tear down deployed feature store infrastructure

```text
feast teardown
```

## Version

Print the current Feast version

```text
feast version
```

Commit message:

feat: Enable ingestion without timestamp by using current time
Signed-off-by: Francisco Javier Arceo <farceo@redhat.com>

docs/reference/feast-cli-commands.md, after:

# Feast CLI reference

## Overview

The Feast CLI comes bundled with the Feast Python package. It is immediately available after [installing Feast](../how-to-guides/feast-snowflake-gcp-aws/install-feast.md).

```text
Usage: feast [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Feast CLI

  For more information, see our public docs at https://docs.feast.dev/

Options:
  -c, --chdir TEXT  Switch to a different feature repository directory before
                    executing the given subcommand.

  --help            Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  apply                    Create or update a feature store deployment
  configuration            Display Feast configuration
  entities                 Access entities
  feature-views            Access feature views
  init                     Create a new Feast repository
  materialize              Run a (non-incremental) materialization job to...
  materialize-incremental  Run an incremental materialization job to ingest...
  permissions              Access permissions
  registry-dump            Print contents of the metadata registry
  teardown                 Tear down deployed feature store infrastructure
  version                  Display Feast SDK version
```

## Global Options

The Feast CLI provides one global top-level option that can be used with other commands

**chdir \(-c, --chdir\)**

This command allows users to run Feast CLI commands in a different folder from the current working directory.

```text
feast -c path/to/my/feature/repo apply
```

## Apply

Creates or updates a feature store deployment

```bash
feast apply
```

**What does Feast apply do?**

1. Feast will scan Python files in your feature repository and find all Feast object definitions, such as feature views, entities, and data sources.
2. Feast will validate your feature definitions (e.g. for uniqueness of features)
3. Feast will sync the metadata about Feast objects to the registry. If a registry does not exist, then it will be instantiated. The standard registry is a simple protobuf binary file that is stored on disk \(locally or in an object store\).
4. Feast CLI will create all necessary feature store infrastructure. The exact infrastructure that is deployed or configured depends on the `provider` configuration that you have set in `feature_store.yaml`. For example, setting `local` as your provider will result in a `sqlite` online store being created. 

{% hint style="warning" %}
`feast apply` \(when configured to use cloud provider like `gcp` or `aws`\) will create cloud infrastructure. This may incur costs.
{% endhint %}

## Configuration

Display the actual configuration being used by Feast, including both user-provided configurations and default configurations applied by Feast.

```bash
feast configuration
```

```yaml
project: foo
registry: data/registry.db
provider: local
online_store:
    type: sqlite
    path: data/online_store.db
offline_store: 
    type: dask 
entity_key_serialization_version: 3
auth:
    type: no_auth
```

## Entities

List all registered entities

```text
feast entities list

Options:
  --tags TEXT  Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
               key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
```

```text
NAME       DESCRIPTION    TYPE
driver_id  driver id      ValueType.INT64
```

## Feature views

List all registered feature views

```text
feast feature-views list

Options:
  --tags TEXT  Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
               key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
```

```text
NAME                 ENTITIES    TYPE
driver_hourly_stats  {'driver'}  FeatureView
```

## Init

Creates a new feature repository

```text
feast init my_repo_name
```

```text
Creating a new Feast repository in /projects/my_repo_name.
```

```text
.
├── data
│   └── driver_stats.parquet
├── example.py
└── feature_store.yaml
```

It's also possible to use other templates

```text
feast init -t gcp my_feature_repo
```

or to set the name of the new project

```text
feast init -t gcp my_feature_repo
```

## Materialize

Load data from feature views into the online store.

**With timestamps:**
```bash
feast materialize 2020-01-01T00:00:00 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

**Without timestamps (uses current datetime):**
```bash
feast materialize --disable-event-timestamp
```

Load data for specific feature views:

```text
feast materialize -v driver_hourly_stats 2020-01-01T00:00:00 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

```text
feast materialize --disable-event-timestamp -v driver_hourly_stats
```

The `--disable-event-timestamp` flag is useful for quick testing or when you want to materialize all available data up to the current time.

```text
Materializing 1 feature views from 2020-01-01 to 2022-01-01

driver_hourly_stats:
100%|██████████████████████████| 5/5 [00:00<00:00, 5949.37it/s]
```

## Materialize incremental

Load data from feature views into the online store, beginning from either the previous `materialize` or `materialize-incremental` end date, or the beginning of time.

```text
feast materialize-incremental 2022-01-01T00:00:00
```

## Permissions

### List permissions
List all registered permission

```text
feast permissions list

Options:
  --tags TEXT    Filter by tags (e.g. --tags 'key:value' --tags 'key:value,
                 key:value, ...'). Items return when ALL tags match.
  -v, --verbose  Print the resources matching each configured permission
```

```text
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| NAME                  | TYPES       | NAME_PATTERNS         | ACTIONS   | ROLES          | REQUIRED_TAGS           |
+=======================+=============+=======================+===========+================+================+========+
| reader_permission1234 | FeatureView | transformed_conv_rate | DESCRIBE  | reader         | -                       |
|                       |             | driver_hourly_stats   | DESCRIBE  | reader         | -                       |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| writer_permission1234 | FeatureView | transformed_conv_rate | CREATE    | writer         | -                       |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
| special               | FeatureView | special.*             | DESCRIBE  | admin          | test-key2 : test-value2 |
|                       |             |                       | UPDATE    | special-reader | test-key : test-value   |
+-----------------------+-------------+-----------------------+-----------+----------------+-------------------------+
```

`verbose` option describes the resources matching each configured permission: 

```text
feast permissions list -v
```

```text
Permissions:

permissions
├── reader_permission1234 ['reader']
│   └── FeatureView: none
└── writer_permission1234 ['writer']
    ├── FeatureView: none
    │── OnDemandFeatureView: ['transformed_conv_rate_fresh', 'transformed_conv_rate']
    └── BatchFeatureView: ['driver_hourly_stats', 'driver_hourly_stats_fresh']
```

### Describe a permission
Describes the provided permission

```text
feast permissions describe permission-name
name: permission-name
types:
- FEATURE_VIEW
namePattern: transformed_conv_rate
requiredTags:
  required1: required-value1
  required2: required-value2
actions:
- DESCRIBE
policy:
  roleBasedPolicy:
    roles:
    - reader
tags:
  key1: value1
  key2: value2

```
### Permission check
The `permissions check` command is used to identify resources that lack the appropriate permissions based on their type, name, or tags.

This command is particularly useful for administrators when roles, actions, or permissions have been modified or newly configured. By running this command, administrators can easily verify which resources and actions are not protected by any permission configuration, ensuring that proper security measures are in place.

```text
> feast permissions check


The following resources are not secured by any permission configuration:
NAME                         TYPE
driver                       Entity
driver_hourly_stats_fresh    FeatureView
The following actions are not secured by any permission configuration (Note: this might not be a security concern, depending on the used APIs):
NAME                         TYPE                 UNSECURED ACTIONS
driver                       Entity               CREATE
                                                  DESCRIBE
                                                  UPDATE
                                                  DELETE
                                                  READ_ONLINE
                                                  READ_OFFLINE
                                                  WRITE_ONLINE
                                                  WRITE_OFFLINE
driver_hourly_stats_fresh    FeatureView          CREATE
                                                  DESCRIBE
                                                  UPDATE
                                                  DELETE
                                                  READ_ONLINE
                                                  READ_OFFLINE
                                                  WRITE_ONLINE
                                                  WRITE_OFFLINE

Based on the above results, the administrator can reassess the permissions configuration and make any necessary adjustments to meet their security requirements.

If no resources are accessible publicly, the permissions check command will return the following response:
> feast permissions check
The following resources are not secured by any permission configuration:
NAME    TYPE
The following actions are not secured by any permission configuration (Note: this might not be a security concern, depending on the used APIs):
NAME    TYPE    UNSECURED ACTIONS
```


### List of the configured roles
List all the configured roles

```text
feast permissions list-roles

Options:
  --verbose Print the resources and actions permitted to each configured
            role
```

```text
ROLE NAME
admin
reader
writer
```

`verbose` option describes the resources and actions permitted to each managed role: 

```text
feast permissions list-roles -v
```

```text            
ROLE NAME          RESOURCE NAME               RESOURCE TYPE    PERMITTED ACTIONS
admin              driver_hourly_stats_source  FileSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              vals_to_add                 RequestSource    CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_stats_push_source    PushSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_hourly_stats_source  FileSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              vals_to_add                 RequestSource    CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
admin              driver_stats_push_source    PushSource       CREATE
                                                                DELETE
                                                                QUERY_OFFLINE
                                                                QUERY_ONLINE
                                                                DESCRIBE
                                                                UPDATE
reader             driver_hourly_stats         FeatureView      DESCRIBE
reader             driver_hourly_stats_fresh   FeatureView      DESCRIBE
...
```


## Teardown

Tear down deployed feature store infrastructure

```text
feast teardown
```

## Version

Print the current Feast version

```text
feast version
```
