docs/reference/type-system.md, before:

# Type System

## Motivation

Feast uses an internal type system to provide guarantees on training and serving data.
Feast currently supports eight primitive types - `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `BOOL`, and `UNIX_TIMESTAMP` - and the corresponding array types.
Null types are not supported, although the `UNIX_TIMESTAMP` type is nullable.
The type system is controlled by [`Value.proto`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/protos/feast/types/Value.proto) in protobuf and by [`types.py`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/sdk/python/feast/types.py) in Python.
Type conversion logic can be found in [`type_map.py`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/sdk/python/feast/type_map.py).

## Examples

### Feature inference

During `feast apply`, Feast runs schema inference on the data sources underlying feature views.
For example, if the `schema` parameter is not specified for a feature view, Feast will examine the schema of the underlying data source to determine the event timestamp column, feature columns, and entity columns.
Each of these columns must be associated with a Feast type, which requires conversion from the data source type system to the Feast type system.
* The feature inference logic calls `_infer_features_and_entities`.
* `_infer_features_and_entities` calls `source_datatype_to_feast_value_type`.
* `source_datatype_to_feast_value_type` cals the appropriate method in `type_map.py`. For example, if a `SnowflakeSource` is being examined, `snowflake_python_type_to_feast_value_type` from `type_map.py` will be called.

### Materialization

Feast serves feature values as [`Value`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/protos/feast/types/Value.proto) proto objects, which have a type corresponding to Feast types.
Thus Feast must materialize feature values into the online store as `Value` proto objects.
* The local materialization engine first pulls the latest historical features and converts it to pyarrow.
* Then it calls `_convert_arrow_to_proto` to convert the pyarrow table to proto format.
* This calls `python_values_to_proto_values` in `type_map.py` to perform the type conversion.

### Historical feature retrieval

The Feast type system is typically not necessary when retrieving historical features.
A call to `get_historical_features` will return a `RetrievalJob` object, which allows the user to export the results to one of several possible locations: a Pandas dataframe, a pyarrow table, a data lake (e.g. S3 or GCS), or the offline store (e.g. a Snowflake table).
In all of these cases, the type conversion is handled natively by the offline store.
For example, a BigQuery query exposes a `to_dataframe` method that will automatically convert the result to a dataframe, without requiring any conversions within Feast.

### Feature serving

As mentioned above in the section on [materialization](#materialization), Feast persists feature values into the online store as `Value` proto objects.
A call to `get_online_features` will return an `OnlineResponse` object, which essentially wraps a bunch of `Value` protos with some metadata.
The `OnlineResponse` object can then be converted into a Python dictionary, which calls `feast_value_type_to_python_type` from `type_map.py`, a utility that converts the Feast internal types to Python native types.

Commit message:

feat: Support for Map value data type (#5768) (#5772)
* feat: Support for Map value data type #5768

Signed-off-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>

* Updating documentation

Signed-off-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>

* Adding proto python files

Signed-off-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>

* Fixing format issues

Signed-off-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>
Co-authored-by: Nick Quinn <nicholas_quinn@apple.com>

docs/reference/type-system.md, after:

# Type System

## Motivation

Feast uses an internal type system to provide guarantees on training and serving data.
Feast currently supports eight primitive types - `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `BOOL`, and `UNIX_TIMESTAMP` - and the corresponding array types.
Map type is also supported using a key of `STRING` type and any supported feast type as a value.  
Null types are not supported, although the `UNIX_TIMESTAMP` type is nullable.
The type system is controlled by [`Value.proto`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/protos/feast/types/Value.proto) in protobuf and by [`types.py`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/sdk/python/feast/types.py) in Python.
Type conversion logic can be found in [`type_map.py`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/sdk/python/feast/type_map.py).

## Examples

### Feature inference

During `feast apply`, Feast runs schema inference on the data sources underlying feature views.
For example, if the `schema` parameter is not specified for a feature view, Feast will examine the schema of the underlying data source to determine the event timestamp column, feature columns, and entity columns.
Each of these columns must be associated with a Feast type, which requires conversion from the data source type system to the Feast type system.
* The feature inference logic calls `_infer_features_and_entities`.
* `_infer_features_and_entities` calls `source_datatype_to_feast_value_type`.
* `source_datatype_to_feast_value_type` cals the appropriate method in `type_map.py`. For example, if a `SnowflakeSource` is being examined, `snowflake_python_type_to_feast_value_type` from `type_map.py` will be called.

### Materialization

Feast serves feature values as [`Value`](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/blob/master/protos/feast/types/Value.proto) proto objects, which have a type corresponding to Feast types.
Thus Feast must materialize feature values into the online store as `Value` proto objects.
* The local materialization engine first pulls the latest historical features and converts it to pyarrow.
* Then it calls `_convert_arrow_to_proto` to convert the pyarrow table to proto format.
* This calls `python_values_to_proto_values` in `type_map.py` to perform the type conversion.

### Historical feature retrieval

The Feast type system is typically not necessary when retrieving historical features.
A call to `get_historical_features` will return a `RetrievalJob` object, which allows the user to export the results to one of several possible locations: a Pandas dataframe, a pyarrow table, a data lake (e.g. S3 or GCS), or the offline store (e.g. a Snowflake table).
In all of these cases, the type conversion is handled natively by the offline store.
For example, a BigQuery query exposes a `to_dataframe` method that will automatically convert the result to a dataframe, without requiring any conversions within Feast.

### Feature serving

As mentioned above in the section on [materialization](#materialization), Feast persists feature values into the online store as `Value` proto objects.
A call to `get_online_features` will return an `OnlineResponse` object, which essentially wraps a bunch of `Value` protos with some metadata.
The `OnlineResponse` object can then be converted into a Python dictionary, which calls `feast_value_type_to_python_type` from `type_map.py`, a utility that converts the Feast internal types to Python native types.
